# Mechanus
An orrery for the theater of the mind.

## Perspective
I started playing TSR's D&D around 1980 or so with AD&D. Between THAC0, endless tables, spell preparation, etc. it was plenty obvious to this then 10 year old that the whole thing while awesome, could use some automation. Not long after, computer RPGs appeared -- I spent a lot of hours with Wizardry for the Apple ][+ -- but as we all learned, taking the DM out of the game left it a bit flat.  It is exciting to go up levels for sure! How many computer games have powerups? Once the roleplaying is removed, it is the best part of the game, perhaps! But the story goes flat and the joy of playing with other people is completely lost. In a computer RPG, everything is on rails to some degree. It is also just much too easy to just play by yourself. We know how that goes.

These days we have VTT's to play with. What could be better? What could be worse? I have to admit that while I bought Foundry VTT 2 months ago, and I've been playing with it, I honestly can't figure out how to get damage to automatically apply to the monsters and a lot of other basic stuff. Too much has to be micromanaged and the controls for that just get in the way. I can't see dragging a bunch of newbies into a D&D campaign on Foundry and accomplishing much other than wasting a couple of hours in disappointment, fog of war or no.  Some of you out there have figured out Foundry and that is great!  For me, there are too many modules, and too many default settings that disable whatever is great about the module. The endless configuration is truly endless, and if you get it working something may update and break it again. I get that you can probably do great things with the tool. However, I'm beginning to think that it might be too technical for me.

Which is funny! I have a Ph.D. in a natural science, a postdoc at Caltech, worked briefly designing new pharmaceuticals before switching to 21 years as a software engineer working on operating systems at Apple. All that came with maybe half a dozen papers and dozens of patents. I mean, I usually have a pretty good tolerance for the technical! However, I've come under the opinion that Foundry technicality is a special breed of perverse and I might just find C++ simpler. 

If you know C++, you'll understand what a preposterous thing that is to say. 

## The Dream
What I want to make here is sort of a generic rules calculator for theater of the mind. As a spreadsheet is to finance, this would be to tabletop roleplay. A spreadsheet is way boring, so it's not going to look like that, but it will embody computation, reveal and hide complexity as needed, and deal with the heavy lifting and allow you to more quickly play with and in the system. What it is not is a graphics heavy computer roleplaying game. It may not have graphics at all, but it should do teleconferencing if you are remote, or work just as well in person with a real table top. We just move the dice and the group math project _in silico_, so it is a nobody math project and the game group can focus on narrative and spectacle. It should be a digital character sheet too -- automation without the distraction -- but unlike other digital character sheets be networked so that your character can interact with other entities in the game through game mechanics. I shoot Fred with an arrow, and look at that, Fred's character sheet over there on Fred's machine loses some hitpoints. The best user interface is the one that you don't have to use.

If I dream big -- success beyond any rational expectation -- Mechanus would spawn a new generation of TTRPGs, where the math doesn't have to be mercilessly pruned to the the barest possible because the human computation engine is sorely taxed figuring out how many days until Friday. Want to use a true normal distribution with mean and variance instead of dice? Sure! Go right ahead. Whatever you are thinking of doing, the computer can do it millions if times per second, so it's hardly an obstacle. The player won't see it anyway, so why not? Is the quantization of the D20 leading to implausible results happening a bit too often in your game? IEEE-754 double precision would solve that in a hurry. Track hundreds of skills? No problem! Finally play the necromancer you always wanted because you now can easily calculate the attacks of 34 minions without slowing down the game. Your wristwatch could do 34 million attacks! No reason to worry. How much of your traditional tabletop experience is this way because the limitations of the human calculation engine force our designs into a tiny and very oddly shaped box?

I've got some bits. I wrote a XML & JSON parser a few months ago. I'm working on peer to peer networking and service discovery. I've written more than a few mathematical parsers in my day and feel I can do better than the average bear on that. Hopefully in time the puzzle pieces will come together. It wont be easy or quick, but like Lewis and Clark, there are rivers to follow, passes to traverse and friendlies along the way to point the direction. 

It should be fun.
